---
title: "Why I Made This Site"
description: "My personal motivations for making this site."
slug: "2"
date: 2025-07-28
---

*If you're looking for technical details about the site's creation, see [this post](/blog/1) instead.*

---

Hi! This is my first blog, so I guess it figures that I would make it on the development of this site.

I've always been interested in making a website for myself, for a couple main reasons.

Firstly, I've always ideologically liked the idea of having a site separate from all-encompassing social medias. Ultimately, it's not my single biggest motive, hence why I'm using a subdomain rather than one I fully own.

but a couple things pushed me over the edge recently:

1. I stumbled across [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0pyGTzgr940) by one of my favorite YouTubers. She made the site [insect.christmas](https://www.insect.christmas), and I loved its complexity and old school, almost terminal-adjacent aesthetic.

2. My friend kevlu8 made his blog, [int0x80.ca](https://int0x80.ca), and I figured I might as well join him. I really liked how his site was minimal but still aesthetically pleasing.

As you can probably tell, this site is basically an unholy lovechild of those two. It's nowhere near as fleshed-out as the first or as minimal as the second, but it's reaching a balance I'm happy with.

---

Anyways, let's get to the gimmick:

\>>> **This entire site could theoretically be faithfully rendered in a standard terminal!**

What does this mean? Well, standard terminals primarily render one thing: text. Only one font of one size, as well as **bold**, *italic*, and ***bold-italic*** versions of it. They can also render foreground and background colors, like what you see when you hover over [this link](#). Margins also don't exist, as the entire terminal solely consists of lines of text, one after the other.

More importantly, this means I'm not allowed to render images, shapes, icons, different sized text, different fonts... basically every luxury of the modern web. I can't rely on headers or small margins for spacing,  

As you likely noticed, my username in the header is made up of box-drawing characters.

```cpp
┏━━━━━┳━━┳━━┳━━━━━┳━━━━━┳━━━┳━┳━┓
┃   ━━┫  ┃  ┃  ┏━━┫  ╻  ┣━┓ ┃ ╹ ┃
┣━━   ┃     ┃  ╹  ┃  ╹  ┣━┛ ┗━┓ ┃
┗━━━━━┻━━━━━┻━━━━━┻━━━━━┻━━━━━┻━┛
```

It's 4 characters tall, 33 characters wide, and the same font as the other text in this site.
